Oh boy wasn't that last lesson super super fun with all that installation and setup and errors.
Hopefully things will be a lot better as we move along.
That was I say the hardest part.
We're back here at the flask framework and the next thing we want to do is we want to go to the quick
start guide and I know I could just code along and show you exactly how it is but I really want to show
you the process of how you work as a developer because once you're done with this course you're going
to be out in the world and you should know how to learn something new.
Let's say at the next job somebody says hey I want you to use Django instead of flask.
How do you learn it.
Well you read the documentation so I just clicked on the quick start because I just want to build a
server really really quick.
And you see here that the minimal application is well it looks like this.
So let's just copy the code from here and we'll talk about it line by line.
Don't worry so I'm going to close off these index files.
This script files in the CSF files we're in our virtual environment.
Let's clear this and we can actually just create a new file so in our web server ledgers say new file
and I'm going to say server dot pi so we have a new python file and we're going to copy and paste that
code.
So we're installing or we already installed.
So I'm going to import flask from flask and then we do this funny thing called app equals flask and
we use the flask class to instantiate an app and we do this underscore underscore name.
Now when something is confusing I always like knowing what's happening.
So I'm just gonna run underscore underscore name here and actually just printed up so we know what it
is.
And for now let's just comment out the bottom part of this.
Just click save.
I want to find out what this name is.
So let's see if we can run this file.
I'm going to say Python 3 and simply say server dot by O.
And we're in the desktop right now so let's C.D. into web server that's clear and run that again.
So Python 3 server up by.
And there you go so our name in this case is made and why is that.
Well because this is the main file that we're running this should really be a surprise.
Right.
So we've created an instance of a flask app or set up our flask app and this is our app.
And where we run it from our command line it sets the name as the main.
So that's the name of our app essentially.
All right.
So we've created our app our flask app and then we see that we're using what is this.
This is a decorator right.
We learned about this again one of the cool things about frameworks is that they give you what we call
a higher level of abstraction.
That means we don't necessarily need to know what this is doing what the code is doing underneath.
We just know that this app dot wrote decorator gives us some extra tools for us to build a server.
In this case it's going to say anytime we hit slash or what we call the route I want you to define a
function called Hello World and return Hello World but let's go back to the documentation.
Now one thing I want to note here is that when you call your python file make sure you don't call it
flask dot PI because this would actually conflict with flask itself.
So name it served up by or hollowed out by whatever you want just in case you get that error.
Now the next part is to actually run our application our flask application.
Now there's one other trick here that we need to do we need to run the flask wrong comment.
So flask also gives us a command line run to actually run our server but we also see here that we need
to export let's make this a little bit bigger.
We need to export flask app equals to Hello Dot Pi.
And as you can see here we just need to give it that environment variable.
So a flask app just like this and if you're on Windows or partial it shows you what commands to run
again I'll link to this resource so that you can copy and paste as well in my case I'll just do export.
So copy and paste here and instead of Hello Dot pi I'm going to name it server dot pie and then we can
do flask run.
Now another option is to actually do Python dash and flask run but since we created a virtual environment
we should be able to run flask run.
All right.
We get a little warning.
This is a development server do not use it in production deployment.
All right.
That's good.
We don't need to worry about because we're not doing production right now.
This is just something on our computers and you see here that it's running on a GDP went to seven point
zero point zero point one.
This is the standard.
It's what we call a local host.
This is the U.R.L. or the address of the laptop.
I'm working on it for you.
That's the same thing with port five thousand.
So if I copy this and open this up.
What.
Look at that.
Are you kidding me.
We just created our server with Hello world.
Where is this coming from.
Well it's coming from this right.
The slash says Hey any time we do the root directory.
So this is like saying here slash here anytime the browser requests for this end point it's going to
hit our server.
And look at that.
It's actually logging out that one to seven point zero point zero one which is us we logged the century
the app road is going to say hey hey somebody needs some of our resources some files some data.
What should we do.
Well we have this hello world function that we're going to run and we're going to run by returning hello
world.
That's right.
We just created our very first server just to prove that I'm not making this up let's put your own name
on it refresh and oh I'm refreshing and it's not working.
And that is because you see here that I'm actually making these requests but the changes haven't been
saved.
We actually have to do control or command.
See that's clear.
And run the server again.
So now fi refresh look at that.
Now that's really cool.
And I also want to show you that.
See here it says serving flask app server dot pie.
Remember when we ran the command
this where we used flash cap equals server dot pie.
This is what it's saying.
We are able to do what we call an environmental variable and set flask cap which is going to get displayed
here a server dot pie.
So I could have called our app whatever we want.
So if I go back here and just say super duper super duper hand I run.
You see that my flask app is named Super duper.
Now the other thing I don't like is the fact that every time I make a change I have to restart the server.
And you can see here that the debug mode is off.
I can actually turn on the debug mode by doing something like this.
Once again we use the environment variable and if we go to debug mode in our documentation here you
can see here that if we do flask and equals development which again is that oh the flask app will say
env equals development and I run this again you'll see that I'm now in the debug mode on this is something
that we use again just flasks this specific to make sure that it's in development mode and what this
does is watch this as I change this and save it I go back and refresh Oh and I get an error.
Again this is one of the cool things with the debugger.
So if I make this a little smaller I get an error saying hey cannot import super duper Well that's because
I just changed the name from super duper but it's actually trying to import this server dot Pi.
And while we should probably name and server up by because it doesn't work.
I only changed it just to show you what it does.
So we can actually fix it again the debug mode as you can see gives us a lot of information.
So I'm going to close the server fix my silly name from super duper to server dot pie.
All right we're all good and then we're going to flask run.
All right let's go back and refresh.
There you go.
Everything is all good.
But the cool part is that now if I change this to just Hello.
Save.
Notice how the server notice the changes you see over here detected changes and automatically change
things for me.
So if I refresh look at that I don't have to restart the server and everything is working.
Awesome.
We have our basic server but we still have a bit more to go because we want to get to the point where
we can actually serve important information like h mail files the SS files and JavaScript files.
Let's explore that a little bit more in the next video.